Background
==========

The PECE project extends from work in cultural anthropology over the
last few decades that foregrounds how cultural critique, innovation and
change emerge, and the significance of the genre forms through which
culture is expressed (Marcus and Fischer 1986; Clifford and Marcus
1986). This thread of work in cultural anthropology has drawn on
literary and language theory to address the significance of genre forms
both in everyday enactment of culture in different settings, and in
scholarly representations of culture. PECE extends this thread of work
into the digital domain through a platform design that reflects critical
insight from theories of language, literature, and ethnography, built
out organically with original ethnographic material. Thus, while
designed to reflect critical theory, PECE is also ethnographically
grounded, collaborative in nature, and expressly experimental: the
platform is designed to permit change as called for by evolving
ethnographic engagements. This entwined development process has been
challenging but has proven robust, allowing us to identify needs and
explore computational possibilities from within humanities work,
learning about and building the kinds of tools that are critical when
ethnographers work collaboratively, especially on complex topics
involving multiple sites, scales and actors, and many different kinds of
“data.”

We work on PECE aware of long-standing effort, often experimental in
tenor, to integrate new technologies and media into the work and
expression of cultural analysis. Gregory Bateson and Margaret Mead’s
stunning work with photography – as both a research tool and means of
conveying their analysis – comes immediately to mind (Bateson and Mead
1942; Jacknis 1988). The history of filmmaking in the conduct and
expression of cultural analysis has also laid important ground,
generating impressive methodological debates and innovation, and a body
of work that literally provides different angles on matters of interest
and concern to cultural analysts. Digital tools and modes of
presentation add still other possibilities for getting at and sharing
understanding of how “culture” works – in historical, geographic,
political, economic and media context, always in need of deeper or
alternative ways of understanding. The goal of PECE could be described
as kaleidoscopic, enriching cultural analysis through use of an
ever-evolving array of techniques and technologies – which, together,
multiply perspective, give texture to insight, and animate reflexivity.
