History of PECE Development
================

The development of PECE as a stand-alone platform began in 2011. Since
then, the PECE design team has gone through several iterations of the
platform. In 2013, we began development of PECE on the content
management system Plone; however due to the technical and
epistemological challenges that the system posed, we moved to the
content management system Drupal in 2014. The first attempt to design
PECE with Drupal involved configuring factory standard Drupal features
and add-on modules, using administrative menus offered *through-the-Web*. Using the Features module, we were able to
standardize certain configurations on one instance and then push them
out to other instances of the platform. However, in order to package
PECE into a distribution that could be downloaded and used by any
ethnographic project, we realized that we would need to hire developers
to formalize our configurations, secure our permissions system, and
develop new software modules.

In 2015, we hired the Brazil-based Drupal development company Taller to
begin developing PECE as a Github distribution. Since 2015, we have
formalized a data model, a permissions system, a workflow, and several
user interfaces. The first version of the distribution was released in
March 2016, and since then we have released 3 updates to the
distribution, each offering additional features and improved user
interfaces. We also hired the development company Agaric to work on
specific modules for PECE in the fall of 2015. Agaric took over
development of a module to integrate Zotero feeds with Drupal platforms
and developed a module to integrate Archival Resource Keys in Drupal
platforms. Both of these modules are available through the Drupal site
at
[*https://www.drupal.org/platform-for-experimental-collaborative-ethnography*](https://www.drupal.org/platform-for-experimental-collaborative-ethnography).
The Zotero module has been configured and is available in the PECE
distribution and the ARK module should be available through PECE
shortly. Today, we have one lead developer, Renato Vasconcellos Gomes,
working full-time to add new features to the platform.
