Logics
=======

### What is a substantive logic?

Substantive logics document the rationale for running a particular
instance of PECE or for conducting a particular research project. They
can be associated with Projects or Groups.

### How is it different than a design logic?

“...design logics are critical directives, informed by a design
community’s habits and assumptions about language, and by its
philosophical commitments, which direct the architecture and arrangement
of content in the systems they produce. As design logics shape the way
digital systems are designed, the resulting material infrastructure
comes to embody the designer’s worldviews.” (Poirier 2017)

The designers of PECE outlined a series of design directives when
architecting the platform. These design directives orient how content is
organized in the system and how users can interact with the system’s
affordances. Since these logics shape how research in the system is
conducted and organized, these design logics are an important piece of
metadata for the platform as a whole and for any research that is
conducted on the platform. They provide insight into the traditions of
research and thinking that have informed the design of workflows and
data management on PECE.

PECE’s design logics travel with every instance of the platform and
cannot be edited by platform contributors.

### Where can I find a list of design logics on the site?

Navigate to the ‘About’ link in the main menu. There will be a tab on
this page for ‘Design Logics’, where all of the platform’s design logics
will be listed.

### ![](media/about.png)

### Where can I find a list of substantive logics on the site?

Navigate to the ‘About’ link in the main menu. There will be a tab on
this page for ‘Substantive Logics’, where all of the platform’s
substantive logics will be listed. You can also access substantive
logics that have been associated with specific projects or groups from
their respective pages.

### How do I add substantive logics to projects?

When [*creating a project*](../projects), there will be a
field that allows users to reference substantive logics that have
already been added to the platform. Begin typing the title of the
substantive logic into this field and the system should begin searching
for the link to the logic. Upon saving the project, the substantive
logic should be linked from the project page.

### How do I add substantive logics to groups?

When creating a group, there will be a field that allows users to
reference substantive logics that have already been added to the
platform. Begin typing the title of the substantive logic into this
field and the system should begin searching for the link to the logic.
Upon saving the group, the substantive logic should be linked from the
group page.

![](media/grouplogics.png)
