Rationale
=====================

The development of PECE has been motivated by an array of concerns that
we have come to call “substantive logics.” Continual cultivation of
growing list of substantive logics for the PECE Project itself, as well
as for other instances of PECE, is a way to keep tuned to the historical
and political conditions in which we work, integrating empirical and
theoretical understanding.

The contemporary – globalized, high-tech, anthropogenic – world
generates complex risks and problems at an unprecedented pace – calling
for new levels of operational coordination within and across
disciplines, and between researchers and practical decision-makers
working at many scales (local to transnational). Researchers thus need
to develop modes of work – and supporting infrastructure – that enable
deep and complex collaborations of different kinds. PECE aspires to
provide such infrastructure.

Given the complexity – scientific, technical, cultural, and so on – of
contemporary problems there is a special need to cultivate and sustain
different ways of thinking about problems. As feminist theorists have
long argued (Keller, Turkle), epistemological pluralism offers the best
chance of understanding and figuring out ways to respond to complex
problems. Care thus must be taken to keep collaborative practices from
being over-determined; collaboration needs to produce and steward what
the PECE project has termed “kaleidoscopic logic.”

Preserving and extending the special perspectives of humanities
researchers on contemporary problems poses particular challenges, partly
because of technocratic habits of thinking in many practical
decision-making domains. It is thus important to work to extend the
practical relevance of humanities knowledge experimentally, drawing on
deep (theoretical) insight into the ways meaning, knowledge, and culture
“work.” Experimentation (and testing) is called for in the production,
expression, and circulation of humanities knowledge, all of which are
supported by PECE.

Given the complexity of problems many empirical humanities researchers
are concerned with as well as escalating constraints on research
funding, humanities researchers need to develop infrastructure and
governance for sharing research data. They also need to better “expose”
(in the language of computer sciences) the many stages of humanities
knowledge production — so that there are possibilities for collaboration
at all stages, and associated work can be attributed (thus crediting
individual contributions in collaborative projects). Work at faultlines
between different scales, cultures, and disciplinary communities
reliably produces rupture and new lines of work (Traweek), partly
because such interaction inevitably troubles established categories and
modes of sense making, often producing double-binds (Bateson). The
collaborative work supported by PECE thus promises to be vitalizing for
the humanities writ large, and particularly the empirical humanities.

Post-structural studies and theories of language have demonstrated how
stabilized meaning is always partial, forced, and marginalizing (and
thus often violent) (Derrida, Spivak, de Lauretis) – pointing to a need
and possibility for productively unstable knowledge infrastructure and
practice (Derrida, Spivak, de Lauretis). This is particularly the case
in contexts of dramatic change, with enduring and emergent forms of
injustice; in such contexts, established paradigms are insufficient for
dealing with matters at hand. Poststructural insight thus has
particularly relevance today, suggesting the way humanities insight can
undergird contemporary efforts to support interdisciplinarity and
innovation. PECE is designed to demonstrate this.

Given the density of information flows today, laced with conflicts of
interpretation and interests, practitioners in many domains need highly
developed hermeneutic sensibilities, and a high capacity for
collaboration – not only in carrying out concrete tasks, but also for
thinking through what tasks should be carried out, how they should be
prioritized, and how problem identification both directs practical work,
and quickly makes alternative pathways invisible. PECE provides a space
to experiment with and examine different forms of collaboration and thus
can result in research findings with clear relevance to capacity
building efforts in practitioner communities. As described below, we’ve
also conceptualized an instance of PECE designed to serve practitioners
themselves – patients dealing with chronic illnesses, for example, or
community groups dealing with concerns about toxic chemical
contamination.
