Using PECE
==========




Analysis space
--------------

### What is the difference between a structured analytic, an analytic, and an annotation?

**Analytic**: An analytic is a question designed to elicit various
viewpoints about the artifact.

**Structured Analytic:** A structured analytic is named set of organized
questions.

**Annotation**: Annotating an artifact involves responding to a set of
shared and evolving questions that are designed to elicit various
viewpoints about the artifact. In the vocabulary of literature (the
humanities field most akin to our tradition of anthropology), you can
think of annotating an artifact as “reading” an artifact. Each reading,
performed by different individuals, produces different interpretive
insights that broaden and deepen the collaborative analysis of an
artifact.

### How do I create a structured analytic?

Technically, a structured analytic is a tag that gets applied to an
analytic. So let’s say that you have the question: “What is the main
argument of the article?” and you want to add it to a structured
analytic called “Analyzing a research paper.” In PECE, “Analyzing a
research paper” would be a tag that the user associates with the
question. By structuring the structured analytic as a tag (rather than a
folder or some other encompassing structure), users can associate their
questions with more than one structured analytic without having to
duplicate the question in multiple structured analytic folders.

Because of this, in order to create a structured analytic, the user
should simply [*create an analytic*](#how-do-i-create-an-analytic) and add a new tag
(by clicking on the green ‘+’ next to the list of question sets). The
user will be directed to a new form where they can name the structured
analytic and add a description. Once the analytic is saved the
structured analytic will be added to the list of structured analytics
with which analytics can be associated.

### ![](media/createanalytic.png)![](media/addterm.png)

### How do I create an analytic?

Navigate to ‘Dashboard’. This link is listed in the main menu. Under the
‘Add Content’ heading, select ‘Analytic’. You will be directed to a web
form to create the content. Enter the relevant fields. Select the
structured analytic that the analytic will be added to. If you would
like to add the analytic to a new structured analytic, follow the
instructions for [*creating a new structured analytic*](#how-do-i-create-a-structured-analytic). Save the content.

### How do I annotate an artifact?

Navigate to the artifact you would like to annotate. Click the
‘Annotate’ button below the artifact. Select a ‘Structured Analytic’
(set of questions) that you will use to annotate the artifact, and click
‘Continue’. Select a question to respond to, and click ‘Continue’. To
add a question, Select &lt;Create new&gt;, enter the question title in
the field that appears, and click ‘Continue’. Enter the relevant fields,
and click ‘Save and Continue’. Repeat steps 4 and 5 until finished
annotating and then click ‘Finish’.

### Do I have to answer all of the questions for a certain structured analytic when annotating an artifact?

No, you can skip a question.

### How do I select a permission?

See [*Content Permissions*](../gettingstarted#content-permissions) section.

### When creating an annotation, if I hit Save and Continue, and then decide I do not want to answer another question, there is no button for ‘Finish’ from the window that lists structured analytics or the window that lists analytics. Will I lose all of my work if I close out of the window?

No, as soon as you hit Save and Continue, the response to your question
is saved. You can now close out of the window or ‘Cancel’ at any point
without losing your previously saved work.

### How do I edit an annotation?

PECE users should be able to edit their own annotations from any
interface where their annotations are displayed by clicking on the ‘Edit
Annotation’ button. See [*How do I access my annotations?*](how-do-i-access-my-annotations).

![](media/annotations.png)

### How do I edit an analytic?

The titles of analytics should not be edited for any reason. Since all
questions on the platform are shared, and users likely have used the
question to annotate an artifact, changing the text of the question
could comprise the context of existing annotations on the platform. To
add the analytic to another structured analytic, navigate to the page
for analytic, and click the ‘Edit’ tab. Check the box for the structured
analytic to which you would like to add the analytic.

### How do I see a list of all existing structured analytics?

In the newest update to PECE, navigate to the ‘Analyze’ link. This link
will be listed in the main menu. A list of all existing structured
analytics will appear here.

### How do I see a list of all analytics in a given structured analytic?

In the newest update to PECE, navigate to the ‘Analyze’ link. This link
will be listed in the main menu. A list of all existing structured
analytics will appear here. Click on the structured analytic to be
directed to a list of analytics that have been designated a part of that
structured analytic.

### How do I access my annotations?

There are a few options for accessing annotations.

1.  Navigate to your ‘Dashboard’ and click on the tab for ‘Annotated Artifacts’.

2.  Navigate to an artifact that you’ve annotated. Under the rendered file and the ‘Annotate’ button, you will see a list of users that have annotated the artifact. Click on your username to see your annotations of the artifact.

3.  Navigate to the ‘Analyze’ link in the main menu. Click on a structured analytic you’ve used to annotate an artifact and a question that you’ve used to annotate an artifact. You can then filter this page to your username to see the annotations that you’ve created from this question.

### How do I see how others annotated an artifact?

Navigate to the artifact. Under the rendered file and the ‘Annotate’
button, you will see a list of users that have annotated the artifact.
Click on a username to view their annotations. From the page that lists
the user’s annotation of an artifact, you can also click on a question
to see how multiple users responded to that question for the artifact.

### How do I see all of the responses to a particular analytic?

In the newest update to PECE, navigate to the ‘Analyze’ link. This link
will be listed in the main menu. A list of all existing structured
analytics will appear here. Click on the structured analytic to be
directed to a list of analytics that have been designated a part of that
structured analytic. Click on the analytic to view all responses to the
analytic. From here you can filter the responses to a particular user’s
responses or to responses to a particular artifact.

### How do I see all of the responses to a particular analytic for a given artifact?

See [*How do I see all of the responses to a particular analytic?*](#how-do-i-see-all-of-the-responses-to-a-particular-analytic)

### How do I see all of the responses to a particular analytic created by a given user?

See [*How do I see all of the responses to a particular analytic?*](#how-do-i-see-all-of-the-responses-to-a-particular-analytic)

### I annotated a Private or Restricted artifact, and my annotation is appearing in both Search and on Tag pages. Shouldn’t my annotation be Private or Restricted if it is responding to a Private or Restricted artifact?

Yes, it should. Unfortunately, right now, all annotations default to
Open. This is a [*known bug*](../gettingstarted#known-bugs), and we are hoping to have it
fixed soon.

### Annotation Etiquette

There are several important things to remember when creating analytics
for the platform. **All analytics are shared by everyone across the
platform.** As soon as you create an analytic, it is available to
everyone in the platform to use for annotating any artifact. PECE has
been designed to take advantage of this. As diverse users respond to the
same set of questions, it becomes possible to juxtapose answers to
questions.

Therefore,

1.  **You should avoid creating questions that respond to only one artifact or are relevant to only a very specific fieldsite within a broad structured analytic**. For instance, you should avoid adding a question like, “How has the Obama administration’s Open Government Directive influenced the New York City open data policy?” under a structured analytic called “Profiling a Policy.” Instead, a question like, “How have existing policies and directives influenced the structure and content of this policy?” would be accessible to many users on the platform to annotate many artifacts about diverse policies.

2.  **More specific questions should all be categorized into Structured Analytic**. A question like “How has the Obama administration’s Open Government Directive influenced the New York City open data policy?” would be appropriate in a structured analytic called “Profiling the New York City open data policy,” which could be useful if a set of researchers were all going to be annotating artifacts related to the New York City open data policy.

It can be valuable to use the structured analytic headings to cordon off more specific questions so that certain groups can respond to the same set of questions. For instance, in *The Asthma Files*, we have one Structured Analytic called “Special Issue for Transport Policy.” A group of researchers created this analytic so that they can share a set of questions for annotating each other’s abstracts for a special issue to which they were all contributing articles. While these questions were not relevant to any other users on the platform, categorizing the questions under the “Special Issue for Transport Policy” structured analytic, separated these questions out from other more general questions.

1.  **Be sure to navigate the existing structured analytics by clicking on ‘Analyze’ in the main menu before creating a new analytic or structured analytic.** If you see questions or sets of questions similar to the ones you were planning to create, gauge whether there is analytic value to create a separate analytic. If you do create a separate analytic, it will not be possible to juxtapose the responses to this question to the responses the similar questions you identified. This is a tradeoff that you will need to consider.

2.  **If a question is relevant to more than one structured analytic, categorize it under both structured analytics following [*these*](#how-do-i-edit-an-analytic) instructions. Do not duplicate the analytic to categorize it under a separate structured analytic.**

### Overview

For an overview of how to annotate artifacts, please see the following
YouTube video:
[*https://www.youtube.com/edit?o=U&video\_id=bB2X8lZWyVY*](https://www.youtube.com/edit?o=U&video_id=bB2X8lZWyVY)

Publication space
-----------------

### What is the difference between a memo, a photo essay, and a PECE essay?

A memo is a first draft of a piece of writing that may be published on
the site. Upon publishing a memo, that memo is opened for comments from
the platform’s community.

A photo essay is a collection of image artifacts, ordered into a
slideshow, with text added for context. For an example of a photo essay,
see [here](http://theasthmafiles.org/content/6-united-states-environmental-health-governance-timeline)

A PECE essay is a collection of artifacts, memos, and essays, organized
into a collage, with text added for context. For an example of a PECE
essay, see [here](http://worldpece.org/content/lindsays-second-attempt)

### How do I create a memo?

Navigate to your ‘Dashboard’. This link will be listed in the main menu.
Under the ‘Add Content’ heading, select ‘Memo’. You will be directed to
a web form to create the content. Enter the relevant fields (explained
in other parts of this document). Save the content.

### How do I create a photo essay?

Navigate to your ‘Dashboard’. This link will be listed in the main menu.
Under the ‘Add Content’ heading, select ‘Photo Essay’. You will be
directed to a web form to create the content.

In the ‘image artifact’ field, begin typing the name of the artifact you
would like to link into the photo essay. In the ‘text’ field, enter the
essay text that you wish to display with the image artifact. Click the
‘Create Item’ button. ![](media/addphotoessay.png)

To add another photo essay slide, click the ‘Add New Item’ button. Once
done, fill out the remaining fields (explained in other parts of this
document), and save the content.

For an overview of how to create photo essays, see [*this YouTube video*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2K9nrp4j74).

### How do I reorder photos in a photo essay?

Once you’ve created photo essay items, you can reorder photos by
clicking and holding on the ‘+’ symbol next to the item and dragging the
item to a new order.

![](media/reorderimages.png)

### How do I create a PECE essay?

Navigate to your ‘Dashboard’. This link will be listed in the main menu.
Under the ‘Add Content’ heading, select ‘PECE Essay’. You will be
directed to a web form to create the content. Enter the relevant fields.
Save the content. This first step will only capture the metadata for the
essay.

To design the essay, navigate to the essay page you just created and
click ‘View Essay’. At the bottom of the screen there will be a black
bar that says ‘Customize this page’. Click this button to begin to the
customize the page.

To add content to the page, click the ‘+’ button in the blue ‘Content’
box. From this screen, you can add image files (not artifacts; just the
images), maps, free text, content (artifact, annotations, memos, and
essays) stored elsewhere on the platform, and headers for specific
portions of the essay. To add content stored elsewhere on the platform,
click the ‘Add Content’ button, begin typing the title of the content,
and select the appropriate content from the drop-down list. Select a
view mode from the drop-down menu below. A preview of how the content
will be rendered will appear on the right of the screen. Click Save.

To reorder content on the page, after you’ve clicked the ‘Customize this
page’ button, you can click and hold on content boxes and drag them to
new locations.

Once you’re done creating your essay, click the ‘Save’ button in the
black box at the bottom of the page.

For an overview of how to create PECE essays, see this YouTube video.

### How do I comment on publications?

Navigate to the memo, photo essay, or PECE Essay that you would like to
comment on. As long as you are logged in, you will see a heading to ‘Add
New Comment’ on the bottom of the page. Enter a subject, a comment, and
click ‘Save’.

![](media/comment.png)

Licensing
---------

Please review [*this link*](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/) for
an explanation of how to apply Creative Commons licenses to content on
the platform.

Zotero
------

### How do I add a zotero feed to the platform?

Please note; you should only need to create a Zotero feed once per
Zotero library. Once the feed has been created in PECE, any entries
added to the Zotero library afterwards will automatically be imported
into PECE within a half hour.

1.  Navigate to “Dashboard.”

2.  Under “Add Content,” select “Zotero Feed.”

3.  Title your feed.

4.  If importing a group library, To find your group id, navigate to your groups’ settings page and the numeric part of the URL is your group id. If importing a user library, navigate to settings/keys in Zotero. Your ID will follow the sentence “Your userID for use in API calls is”

5.  If you’d only like to import a single collection, select “Fetch Collections.” If you enter a collection id, only items from that collection will be fetched from Zotero. Collections are the “folders” in your Zotero library. To find the id of a collection, go to your library, click on a collection to see its content, and look at the page URL. The collection id is the last item in the path, after “collectionKey/”.

6.  To get an API key, navigate to settings/keys in Zotero.

    -   Select “Create new private key.”

    -   Enter a key description (e.g. The Asthma Files).

    -   Under “Personal Library,” select “Allow library access,” “Allow notes access,” “Allow write access.”

    -   If importing a user library, under “Default Group Permissions,” select the level of access PECE should have to group entries (we recommend selecting “None” here). If importing a group library, select “None” here (you will select the individual group permissions in the next step.)

    -   If importing a Group, check “Per Group Permissions” and then select “Read/Write” access for the group that you will be importing.

    -   Save Key.

7.  Copy and paste the key generated in Zotero into the field “Zotero API key” in PECE.

8.  Publish.

9.  Large libraries will likely take several minutes to import. Do not worry if the progress bar doesn’t look like it’s moving.

10. Now any entries added to this Zotero library will automatically be added to the platform within a half hour.

11. All website entries within the Zotero library will automatically be added to PECE as website artifacts with the citation already linked to the artifact.

For an overview of adding a Zotero feed in the platform, see [*this YouTube video*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lq5Ec97N4gI).

### What happens to my Zotero collections when I import a feed into PECE?

When you import a Zotero feed into PECE, each Zotero entry that was
previously in a collection (or enclosing folder) in Zotero will be
tagged with that folder in PECE. These tags will be separate from free
tags. So if a Zotero entry is imported into PECE that had been in a
folder called New York City, it will have a collection tag in the
platform called ‘New York City’; however, clicking on this tag in the
platform will not link to a page that will list artifacts tagged with
New York City because the collection tags are separate from the free
tags.

![](media/tags.png)

### How do I access a platform bibliography?

Navigate to the “Discover” page. This link is in the main menu. In the
right hand sidebar, there should be a link entitled “PECE Bibliography.”
Click on this link to access the platform’ bibliography.

### How do I cite pdf and website artifacts using zotero entries?

See [*What does ‘bibliography’ mean?*](#what-does-bibliography-mean)

Tagging Etiquette
-----------------

Tagging is key to PECE because it facilitates showcasing the
multiplicity of perspectives surrounding any piece of content. Any piece
of content on the platform can be tagged by any user on the platform
with any term. When users navigate to the page for a tag, they will see,
in a random order, everything on the site that has been tagged with that
term. This further showcases the multiplicity of perspectives
surrounding the meaning of a term and facilitates “chance encounters”
amongst data that may not have otherwise been juxtaposed. Because of
this, we have ignored many of the “do’s/don’t’s” that come out of the
literature on collaborative tagging systems. In order to make this work,
however, (and not spiral into total chaos), we recommend that you adhere
to the following rules of etiquette when tagging.

-   If your tag or something similar shows up in the Autocomplete function as you begin typing it, consider whether the existing tag will work to describe your content.

  -   A goal of PECE is to show connections between disparate content through tags, and tagging several pieces of content with the same tag facilitates this. However, we also recognize that it may be analytically significant to tag a piece of content with ‘knowledges’ vs. ‘knowledge’ or ‘Truth’ vs. ‘truth’.

-   Tag each term separately rather than adding conjunction punctuation to show hierarchy.

    -   There is no benefit on this platform to linking words together in a hierarchy. For instance, there is no benefit on this platform to tagging an artifact with ‘Colors – Blue’ rather than tagging the artifact with both ‘Colors’ and ‘Blue’. In fact tagging in the former is likely to inhibit others from stumbling across your content.

-   Tag any content with any terms that you deem appropriate (even if those terms conflict with the current tags for the content).

    -   Tagging is a key functionality behind facilitating “chance encounters” amongst disparate data on this platform. Importantly, tagging fills the tag pages with content.

    -   Tagging also allows the platform to capture the multiplicity of terms used to characterize a piece of content, which is a key design logic.

Search
------

### Is there a way to search across instances of the platform?

We are hoping that this will be possible very soon. We are looking at
one module
[*https://www.drupal.org/project/apachesolr\_multisitesearch*](https://www.drupal.org/project/apachesolr_multisitesearch)
to enable this.

Discover
--------

### A bunch of website and PDF artifacts just appeared in the platform and don’t have a contributor listed. Where did these artifacts come from?

When a [*Zotero feed is added to the platform*](#how-do-i-add-a-zotero-feed-to-the-platform), the platform
automatically imports new entries from the Zotero library every 30
minutes. Whenever new journal article or website Zotero entries are
imported to the platform, a PDF or website artifact is automatically
created with the Zotero entry listed in the [*‘bibliography’ field*](#what-does-bibliography-mean). Since the artifact is created
automatically by the platform, there will be no contributor listed for
these artifacts.
